# network-intrusion-detection-systems
Network intrusion detection plays important tools to detect breaches within an organization network. Anomaly NIDS detects unknown attacks patterns. Real traﬃc within network contains high-dimensional features or data that creates detection process long. In this research project, a stacked layer of autoencoder is implemented for data dimensionality reduction of information. On low dimensional data, the k-mean algorithm is applied. The NSL-KDD dataset utilized for the analysis. Precision, Accuracy, and Recall is assessed.
Introduction:-
For a network or system administrator, network intrusion detection system (NIDS) assume an important job to check various network attacks inside organization network. NIDS raise or indicates attack after monitoring and analyzing the network, if malicious intent is found in a network then the network is blocked. Abnormality and signaturebased are most generally utilized NIDS inside an organization. Malicious attack pattern is stored in signature-based NIDS. For distinguishing network attacks, pattern coordinating rules or code actualized on network traﬃc. Signature-based NIDS (Wu et al.; 2008)is are exceptionally helpful for known pattern identiﬁcation with high accuracy. Customary NIDS does not distinguish between new and obscure attacks. Intended for predicting unknown patterns or attacks, developing active NIDS posses two main challenges. One of them can be considered as proper selections of features from traﬃc contained within a network. Every millisecond’s numerous form of attacks are found in a network, and particular class feature selection is not suitable to discover a new form of attack. The other one would be ﬁnding a labeled traﬃc dataset. For creating a signiﬁcant labeled dataset from a network, traﬃc dataset takes an extended period. Network or system administrator tries not to report the attack to maintain ﬁrm conﬁdentiality. NIDS which works with machine learning algorithms seems to generate alarm anytime when pattern deviation occurs and label traﬃc as dangerous. The challenge with anomaly-based NIDS model is that it gives a high amount of false-positive rates. Researchers (Revathi and Malathi; 2013) proposes the diﬀerent types of the machine
1
learning algorithm. , unsupervised algorithm and supervised machine learning algorithms are applied with NIDS which is also known as hybrid NIDS. Anticipated to memory with time complexity, they did not get great outcomes with a huge unlabelled dataset. High dimensionality with non-linear characteristics of data makes it very diﬃcult for the machine learning algorithm to perform well. In such a scenario, the Deep learning algorithm is found to be eﬀective, eﬃcient and can outperform the machine learning models to large and complicated data problem. Stacked autoencoder outperform principal component analysis (Manning-Dahan; 2018) regarding dimensionality reduction. For the improvement of classiﬁcation accuracy, reliability to enhance generalization ability, multiple hidden layers can be used for building autoencoder. Eliminating noises or redundant features would help to classiﬁer overall performance on testing and training data. Piled layers in autoencoder would help to data dimensionality reduction from a huge unlabeled dataset. K-Mean can be deployed to determine any abnormality in data. Estimation of clusters centers might be a problem. The research model for the project is a combo of k-mean and stacked autoencoder. The principal focus of our research paper is high-level features or dimensionality reduction than to fed to machine learning algorithm to achieve high precision rate and achieve accuracy and reliability.NSL-KDD dataset has been used for research purposes. Accuracy level, precision rate, recall of each criterion is analyzed. The quantity of hidden layers in piled autoencoder is changed to ﬁnd the best possible level.
